# C-Starter-Code

Here is a C program that reads standard input, one line at a time, counting the lines. When there are no more lines to read on standard input, it prints out the number of lines read in a field 8 characters wide, with the number right-justified in the field.Type this program into a file named lcnt.cin your project directory.

If you have successfully entered lcnt.cin section 1, and have tested it, you should now be able to generate wcnt.cby simply changing one or two lines of logic in main(), counting words instead of lines.Compile using compiler options “-W -Wall”, link to yield a program file named wcnt, and test wcnton a number of files that you possess; remember to include stsplit.oin your link command line so that your main()in wcntcan use it. How will you know that your program is counting correctly? Compare your results with the word counts generated by the standard wccommand.

Since we are building multiple programs during this project, we definitely need a Makefile. I have provided one below that you should create in your directory.You must be very careful when entering the Makefile; you must not introduce additional spaces, and you must remember that action lines to update a target start with a leading TAB character.


If you have successfully built lcnt.c, you should be able to generate ccnt.c by simply changing one or two lines of logic in main(), counting characters instead of lines. What function is provided in <string.h>to enable you to count characters in a string?Compile using compiler options “-W -Wall”, link to yield a program file named ccnt, and test ccnton a number of files that you possess. How will you know that your program is counting correctly? Compare your results with the character counts generated by the standard wccommand.


The only real difference among the previous three programs is the logic required to count lines, words, or characters. In this version, you will define a function that satisfies the following signature:void countLWC(FILE *fd, long *nl, long *nw, long *nc); main()now becomes a call to countLWC(), passing it stdin, and the addresses of long integer variables for the number of lines, number of words, and number of characters. Then these values can beprinted out on standard output in the order # of lines, # of words, and # of characters. The printing logic should print each count in a field 8 characters wide, with the count right-justified in that field.You are only able to read through the file once - therefore, countLWC()needs to count the additional number of words and characters as it reads each line.Compile using compiler options “-W -Wall”, link to yield a program file named wcfilter, and test wcfilteron a number of files that you possess; remember to include stsplit.oin your link command line so that your main()in wcf  iltercan use it. How will you know that your program is counting correctly? Compare your results with the line, word, and character counts generated by the standard wccommand.


countLWC()shows that you can count lines, words, and characters in the open file passed as the first argument to the function. Thus, we have solved the counting aspect of the program.Now we have to construct the logic in main()that processes the command line arguments so that your wc will work correctly based upon command line arguments. In this program, we process the arguments and print out what the program is supposed to do. In the next section we will merge this logic with countLWC()to produce the final version of wc.c. 




Given countLWC()from wcfilter.c, and the argument processing logic from wcargs.c, we are now ready to put it all together. I suggest that you define a function printLWC()that has the following signature:void printLWC(char *name, bool flags[], long counts[]); 1 <file> means this is replaced by the actual name of the file.
CIS 212 Project 2 6 flags[0]indicates whether counts[0]should be printed; the same for [1] and [2]. As withwcfilter.c, I suggest printing each count in a field 8 characters wide, with the number right-justifiedin that field. Finally, if nameis not the empty string, the counts should be followed by a blank characterand the namebefore printing out the newline character.One additional twist – nothing prevents the user from giving you the name of a file that does not exist. Thus, you will need to determine if an fopen()call on a filename in main()fails; if so, your programshould print the following on standard error output:./wc: open(<filename>) errorand terminate processing.
